In this very minimal application, we find a way how to upload and download files through the browser
and store the files or download the files in or from grid if as we have as part of MongoDB.
So we have to set up some MongoDB connection settings in application properties so you can adjust that
based on your current local situation.
And to start with the solution, we create some backend infrastructure code.
We create some helper packages for Grid of S.
And we start with kind of service methods for our solution.
So let's complete a package set up.
We have a grid of apps, we have a service, we have a Web packages, and we started with a new, fresh,
new Java class.
We will provide some infrastructure backing code for working with attachments.
So let's name it attachment service.
And this class is supposed to be service and in the meaning of spring boot.
So we are adding at service annotation here.
So Spring Boot.
We'll manage creating our service during the application start and to here in this attachment service,
we create all the code we need for managing, upload, uploads and storing and in later lectures, downloading
file attachments from grid of S.
So here in attachment service we create a few helper methods that help us to handle the file upload
file.
We use this multipart file data structure.
Let's fix the name a bit.
We create a few a bit lower level because multiple file, it's a structure we use from the controller
perspective.
But working with of assets, we use a more general data structure like input streams.
So we need to do some kind of conversion.
So we have this store in grid of as a method, we provide a multiple file coming from controller but
to store files directly grid of.
As we are working in with input streams, we created a new method to with with input stream as in a
method signature and we just use it from the main multipart file stored in grid of method.
So we can take this file parameter.
We can get some information from that structure and provide those information to our lower, lower level
method.
So we have this store in grid of S, we use a file input stream and we can go even lower so we can create
a one more method for storing input streams, file name and size.
And we can provide also some kind of metadata, as we mentioned, grid of supports metadata so we can
use map a like object for storing other stuff together with the file in grid of S and we will build
on that in for the lessons.
So let's just create the infrastructure code here for our.
To start working with.
With Avaaz itself, we need a kind of support from Sprint data for MongoDB.
So we use here a manage being called grid RFS operations and we get out of our that in our attachment
service.
So this object is created and provided by Springboard for MongoDB itself and to creative as operations
actually contains almost everything we need to work.
We have great Avaz from our application perspective, so we have available all major operations like
storing files in grid of retrieving finding based on some file attributes and so on.
So to enhance implementation in store in grid of S method, we use that grid as operations and we can
see we have a several storage methods here based on a method signature.
So we use the one working with input stream file name and we provide metadata.
Metadata actually requires a special MongoDB data structure, so we just create a name for the variable
and we create that variable just right now so we can create a DB object, name it metadata and we create
a new instance.
We populate it object, object right away just to clear our code so everything will compile correctly
after that.
So we have meta data here.
Our Grid of operations store methods actually returning a pointer to the object we just created or saved
in the database.
So we create a variable object ID we are getting not object itself, but we are getting a data structure
representing an ID of that file stored in grid of S and because the method signature says we are we
are returning grid fs file, we have to get that file from the storage.
So we use grid of S operations.
Once again, we use a find one method and we need to provide a kind of query describing condition for
getting information from grid of asset or from MongoDB directly.
So we have almost complete, complete criteria defined here.
We defined a query using criteria object saying where ID is equal to object ID data structure returned
from grid of operations dot store.
So that way we actually find a grid of file object in the database.
We can use that method in for the implementation.
We, we just clean up the code here so everything compiles correctly and we have a basic attachment
service.
Glass here for operations we need we use this store in grade of S method.
Mainly we provide into stream with the pointer to actual data.
We use a file name along and we transfer that into integrated s using those great of operations helper
class.
When we created that grade of S in storing in grade of S, we we said we are providing a metadata.
The this metadata is kind of a map like object but specific to MongoDB.
So we use this DB object, we can put some information inside and those information will be stored together
with the grade of S file.
So whenever we retrieve the file from grade of S, we also get all those metadata.
We can use those metadata for creating queries so we can retrieve data from grade of us based on metadata,
for example, which is quite useful.
And of course comparing storing file into the file system, we can really enhance our data storage with
many useful information.
So let's use that.
We have the very basic metadata object and with a name, size and file tab information.
And if we are providing my matter object, it's a map coming to our method and if this my meta object
exists so it's not equal to now we put all data inside our metadata, we are just pushing into store
method when saving the input stream, we have the file, so we have that store method calling.
Here we have a file stream, file name and metadata.
So we have actually everything we need here.
We are getting back object ID data structure which contains the ID representation of the object and
we are creating a query and finding one just one object from grid of SW or MongoDB based on that object
ID.
So it looks like almost complete.
Here we have a backhand side of attachment service.
Which implements basic operations we need.
This is not quite a long code, actually, so it's easy to read and very easy to understand what we
are actually doing.
And I think it's very easy to to store something in grid.
So it doesn't it doesn't work with a file system like structure.
We don't have to look at the the folder limitations, for example, in file system and so on.
So we can store a file directly and the MongoDB or crevasses actually handle all the logic needed for
storing many, maybe a million files, millions of files in database to work with that.
From the browser point of view, we have to create a kind of an end point.
So we create attachment controller.
Let's keep the naming with attachment at the beginning.
So we have that attachment controller.
We, we use that at controller annotation to specify we use that controller and this is not a rest controller.
So we create a UI using a time leave template engine.
We assign it to request mapping.
So this end point is available at slash a and to we ought to wired our attachment service.
This is the handler for operations we just created.
So let's now create the specific end point for creating a new attachment and creating new attachment
to actually means displaying the page in the browser with file upload control.
So this still covers the backend part of the operation.
We add complete front end part in next lecture, but for our purpose we just create a new attachment.
We also have to specify this is a get kind of a mapping.
So get mapping annotation is used here and in this method we just reference.
Templates name here.
So we return actually a string.
We have a path path and a template name here.
So we have a folder slash and new dot HTML file.
So we have to create that file.
So in resources and templates is the place where time leave or springboard is searching for all the
templates here.
We are creating a new HTML file named new dot html.
So we have the basic HTML here.
This HTML is being processed by a spring boot time leaf engine so we can use a tax or any helper and
logic information coming from a time leaf and time leaf will actually process that when serving that
page to the browser.
So let's create some basic HTML in the file.
So we have some Heather saying this is new file attachment here.
And here we need to put some HTML block here.
Defining a forum for submitting a data.
By we, we mean file attachments or file upload.
So we have that forum tack here saying this method post we are posting data to.
We are supposed to post the post data to our server.
We have some kind of label and we have an input tack define saying this is a type of file.
So it's saying to browser we are trying to send a file or attach and send file to browser and we have
the submit button.
We have some classes here.
Those classes are coming from bootstrap CSS so we can actually enhance our class pointing to bootstrap
UI.
So we are just publishing here our UI and embedding reference to bootstrap a host it on CDM.
So let's look at how this HTML is being handled.
We have we have that we have that endpoint definition referencing our new HTML file.
We just created so we can run the application and just take a look at if everything starts from just
fine, application should start with any error.
So we should then check in the browser if that endpoint is available.
Just a little reminder, this endpoint is running at slash a URL, so it's defined in attachment controller
and this is definition for the entire controller.
Our new attachment doesn't define anything specific.
So here in the browser, we can see the new file attachment page as defined in HTML.
Just a little fix needed tweeze.
We reference a new HTML template from a folder, so we have to add that folder into resources templates
to fit our configuration here.